# FAQs

### How did you make the skills matrix? Why not use the one from ___?

These job levels and the corresponding skills and competencies have been written based on industry practices and strongly influenced by publicly available matrices from (e.g.) Square, CircleCI, Kickstarter, Etsy, and other companies (including our client Capable Health). 

You can find a ***lot*** of skills matrices on progression.fyi, many of which we consulted during this process. 

**This ladder is specific to ACN and enshrines qualities that are particularly important within our context.** It is not meant to be universal, but rather specific to the realities of product development at early-stage companies with high ambiguity.

### Why the number of levels?

Many companies have lots more levels (e.g. Developer I - III, Senior Developer I - III, etc. while others just have Developer and Senior Developer). Our main objective was to have deltas between levels that felt meaningful, both in terms of impact within a team, as well as in terms of goal-setting. 

Simultaneously, we wanted to be relatively nimble and flexible given our size — having too many levels would mean we don’t have enough people per level to provide meaningful calibration. 

### What’s different about *this* skills matrix?

This skills matrix highly values generalists. This is deliberate and will not necessarily be the case at other organizations. 

This skills matrix also values prioritization and communication very highly relative to others in industry. 

### What about tech leads?

We got you — 

[The Technical Lead](The%20Technical%20Lead%201a0d7a3555bc41b8a143434327214bb4.md)